and this is the ipfs All Hands call for
March 5th and Lydell is the moderator
but we can maybe start with hellos if
anyone's new and wants to say hello let
us know what you get up to what you're
working on and especially how you've
heard about this meetings because we're
trying to figure out how to welcome more
people and make sure people know about
it oh and where you are in the world
it's a light Allah let you call out
people oh I don't feel very good with
coming out so maybe if anyone wants to
just say something I see Eric raising
his hand or at all how about this can
you hear me yeah all right cool I'm Eric
from and yet we recently started helping
out with protocol labs on some projects
and we're excited to be here Lynn Nathan
and Lynn Fritzi and Heather also from
the team so join in for the first time
you
anyone was once okay hi say hi yeah my
name is Cal now work for technology and
I've been working on the rests port of
Duty only see this is also my first time
all right
anyone else wants to say something say
hi I'm Erica chooses me where I work and
yeah I do design and development and I'm
in Phoenix Arizona
oh cool video all right I see that we
have yeah we have a notes one second
I'll switch myself to the notes and see
what's the agenda for today so one
second
perfect
okay so I think do we have anything for
the agenda maybe we can buy stories yeah
let's let's start with with JSI DFS note
deployed by Victor and if anyone else
has a new agenda items go to to the URL
the whole course URL and add it Victor
sorry I was a bit computer software to
put mine my thing and so J apply papers
so far a house and we need being run in
our infrastructure so we've been missing
some details about the stability and
stuff like that so now I've done first
appointment of the first case I pass
gateway so if you access this URL that I
put in the in the notes you should be
able to see a dashboard that shows the
number of peers connector the amount of
bandwidth the load average of the
instance were running and the memory
memory usage currently so this is still
very early it's missing a lot of people
I'm very sorry about the dogs in the
background and then in the issue that I
put in the link as well there is for
information and if you have any ideas of
people we should log you know
infrastructure about about the GFI PFS
notes please write them so we can add
the default and then in the future we
will deploy more nodes so we can see how
they are together and stuff like that
that's it any questions
it does not seem like sorry I was on the
separate screen so did anyone erased in
a handful question on can we go alright
sorry yeah so the next item on the
agenda is aquifers 0.4 point 14 but I'm
not sure all right yeah so we got a new
release ready to get off the door it's
been a while
this one has a lot of improvements and
memory fixes and a few new features
we're just blocking on one final PR we
want to get infor before we cut or at
least Ken a bit but after that gonna
start moving you can take a look at the
change log that's pending let me post
that in the issue but there's a lot it
took me like a few several hours to just
go through the changes that are in this
one the biggest delay that was being
that was causing this is that we
refactored the command api in library
and that caused several different bugs
and little small things that took a
while to flush out but we've pretty sure
we got most of them now and are moving
forward on that victor worship paste
this or not victor not aware shy face
Oh like to the Crypt piety and increase
mg we'd like to I think that one with
kanji is there get it sweet
all right there have any questions to
this item Rob it might be I just haven't
been around for long enough but is is
part of that refactoring pulling stuff
out into that separate go commands repo
yeah cool okay
I've been trying to map for myself how
because there's the commands repo and
then there's like another thing and then
there's the stuff that's in go hi TFS
I'm trying to map all those totally away
to each other so there's like the new
stuff has been pulled out there's still
some legacy stuff in the guy TFS Rico as
we we didn't want to do it all at once
because I'd have been like a 20,000 line
change log so we didn't do that we left
this so there's some code using some
commands using the old code which is
like a legacy mapping layer that perhaps
onto the view code but we're gonna
progressively rewrite the commands to
use the new stuff and as we go build
elite most the old stuff awesome
I might bug you for more details on like
chat or something later for the notes
what's the what is the repo that these
commands are being but to the ones that
are being moved the commands library is
going to be going PMS commands
/ CMDs I guess what is go CMD - kit also
part of it yes so that's like utilities
that are used by the commands library
if there's still issues bug that you
will fix before doing the release
candidate or is it personal it's frozen
okay it seems like we don't have any
questions for this one and we can move
to another
I think Victor you have yet another one
yes since David is not here
there have been new release of chaos
ipfs version 0.28 which has improvements
for spawning spawning demons pub/sub is
now easier to use directly from big p2p
so it does not be through only ipfs
there is some improvements to the CLI as
well some more examples there is a
shutdown endpoint now for turning off
the TV on if you need to turn off
remotely stuff like that very exciting
is I can be support for Bitcoin on C
cash which I think poker has been
working on very nice to see we are now
testing ji PFS vacations which what a
lot of work but now it's working and now
we have a build the multiplex leap poppy
stream master multiplexer is now
official as a specification and we are
continuing with the dev team weekly
sinks that we now started to do each
week as well after they all have been
working up and that's like a summary of
it you can see the Food Channel
by going to the link I put in the in the
notes
do we have any questions - - this is a
PFS raise from the notes what was the
ritzy casting and you did it just flew
by too fast so I clearly now support
VidCon and see cash natively in the
ship's computer savvy events I should be
together with the IPD resolvers but
Volker I can probably talk more about it
yes so it's in the so in the current J's
ipfs release Li as we saw was for
Bitcoin and Z cash and they're actually
shipped with every copy of JSI PFS yes
okay okay I don't see any right stance
so let's have a question with that then
so is that eventually are those
resolvers I mean they the whole idea
with IP LD is that many people will
create resolvers and ship them on their
own
and not all nodes will support all
resolvers so is there like a trajectory
for moving in that direction that people
can hold down and support the resolvers
that they want to support on their node
i don't first so I'm not I'm not sure
exactly how we will be in the future but
my guess would be that we support some
defaults that will be included in the
distribution stem cells but then you can
add more support dynamically to your own
runtime each meter as far as I
understand
okay I think Foca grease rub just sort
of following on with that is there a
clear list anywhere of of what resolvers
are built-in right now and also on that
trajectory question like a plan for what
ones are planned to be built in in the
future
you
welcome I think there is a on some
website there is a list of the current
release almost I don't think it's up to
date and the only only were where that
the Bitcoin in the C cash well once
again I'm missing on the JavaScript side
so now we have the same resource on the
go side as well on the channel as well
as on the JavaScript side
okay dude could you stick the if you
could you stick a link to that list of
resolvers into the notes but also just
as anyone is there anyone on the call
who wants us to explain what IP LD
resolvers are there a bunch of people
who maybe don't know what that is it's a
relatively new term if you if you wanted
it all right Peter wants it who wants to
take a stab at explaining what an IP LD
resolver is I'm fortunate
all right I'm the one who is responsible
for the I LD resolvers I should be able
to explain it
so I'm actually so to increase the
confusion a bit it's what we're talking
about is I ple resolvers and the project
was called Jas I can t resolver which
got recently for the new IP s release
renamed to just is IP LD so when you now
talk about I believe that's what
the resource used to be that's the main
point of it and why this so IPL D is
about yes
touring some data linking it up so it's
the interplanetary link data thing and
the idea behind the resolvers is that
you if you have the old format like for
some a Bitcoin you just need to
implement a very small API to make it
work with your format and then there is
tell level API is in IPL D and you can
then use those high level API is and you
don't need to take care about the rest
basically and then you can use IP adi
that just traverses all the formats so
you can for example store something in
get and then have in your commit message
a reference to some Bitcoin block and
then you can just load up the code block
if you have a store before it and just
keep on Traverse in there so it's
basically the resource are just in
abstraction on top of your data format
alright so what I would say any further
questions
and the main examples we have so far are
kit and now Bitcoin NC cash so you could
have stuff that in ipfs mixed with stuff
that ingot and stuff the template coin
and stuff it's in C cash and you can
reference it all using IP LT and resolve
it all using high penalty resolvers but
those are just the beginning of the
mountain of resolvers vodka yeah and
this also which is an important one is
also the Seaboard resolver which so
seaboard is a binary format of JSON so
it can store this would be any json data
you want it's also the important one
all right do we have any remaining
concerns questions okay I think we can
move to to demo and demo will be done by
March a so much a go on so a few months
ago I created the software liquid piano
trust which basically enables any
browser to talk to random node that's
running on a computer so now not only
the bootstrap nodes can be connected
from a browser but also browser can all
connect to normal nodes because the
problem with that was that web sockets
no Mexican server is insecure and so the
browser does not let you connect to that
directly and I had to find a way to use
let's encrypt so difficult to make it
possible to connect to that and now I do
a quick demo of dead so in the term that
is the server running the lipid cannot
trust and and this is the browser now I
can add this it connects to the lipid
promote trust server which issues the
certificates this is where this node got
a certificate from I can't enable
discovery and it will now discover a
Yahoo several routes up and connect to
it using let's encrypt certificate and
it does not require installing any
certificate authority or special
certificates for that and it also uses a
special address to DNS domains which
directory resolve to the IP address
which is also
where these certificates are issued for
so those for example so for example this
advance results to just amazing data can
be converted to a and yeah that's
basically all this module does it
enables process to connect to and notes
that run on computers so the bootstrap
seven that's not good
overall it's all from eyes like I have
you got any questions or did you not
understand anything net I'd see you said
the use case is to allow JSI PFS notes
to connect to non browser nodes is that
right and if so what are the obstacles
that you're overcoming what were the
obstacles to making those connections
that are now addressed by node trust so
the problem was that normal Jason if
Ezra nodes run WebSocket service and if
you are running Jess ipfs on an HTTP
HTTPS page then you've got the problem
because you cannot connect where
WebSocket server over HTTPS and to not
trust automatically issues certificates
for those web sockets service so
browsers can connect to these Jazz ipfs
notes directly without the bootstrap
server and without PP circuit
like you you mentioned like there is
this dynamic DNS mapping is it like
third-party service or is it just like
convention I have written the unit's
error and that's something DNS requests
and converting the IP part in the
methane world says IP four eight eight
eight eight for example into a normal
DNS a response with that IP address okay
so this happens all on the fly right yes
okay and all questions so to this demo I
don't see any right stance so I think
thank you much a for your demo and
quickly track average and okay I see
there's a reminder that there's now a
j-type EFS weekly call after this All
Hands call but I don't think there's
anything else added since I've been
looking at this is there anything anyone
wants to add or ask that would be a good
time that we we've also been playing at
the idea of including time in these
calls very like just cumin a sort of
anyone to ask anything so we might want
to experiment with that if people don't
have further items but I saw Peter
raises him
I asked fun to introduce myself kid can
you hear me yep okay thanks I'm brand
new to this space I'd like to help out
in any way I can
I think the fastest way I can help out
and learn is through documentation if
anybody has any work items for
documentation that you need help on let
me know I don't know if this is the
right call is to ask that on or if it's
the next one I'm actually working right
now on doing a lot of research work
around what needs to be documented
better and how to structure it so I try
and be on IRC fairly regularly
I'm mr. Roberge I'm r0 g ROG on there or
get at me on github also there's a new
project called ipfs slash Docs
I'm github which is where we're starting
to tool around with building a new Docs
focused site but it's not very fleshed
out with exactly what it's going to be
yet and so bug me about it it's still in
a very like fuzzy phase and I'm working
actually this week today in particular
I'm starting to publish some of my notes
about what I learned from like talking
to people and interviewing people about
what kind of issues new folks run into
and that kind of stuff okay but yeah
thank you I'll reach out to you then on
a tyrosine
I wanted to introduce myself I'm Nathan
Fritz I'm with and yet and one of the
projects that we're going to be doing is
a blog platform the app and so this week
my goal is to get data later data layer
going for for all of the metadata and so
I'm looking at using peer CRPD
and having sign ups and and go and then
checking against they see how tables and
all of that so I want to get all of that
working this week then and yet has a
week off for a teen week next week and
then after that we've got then after
that I want to hit the ground running
actually making the DM so yeah that's
what we're up to and one of the things
that we're up to and I just wanted to
say hi
are you gonna be on IRA see or other
places where I might bug you about what
kind of stuff here running into live is
starting to do this so I've been slack
and I can be you know in IRC I work I
even know over the IRC Channel I guess I
should have so yeah I can I can join up
piracy I'll be pretty in there well I'm
I'm a both so wherever but I would love
to like if you have time at the end of
this week talk to you about like how
your first week working on it's been
before you're gone for a week okay yeah
I didn't start last week and I was using
mostly working on a custom plate for yjs
but because I was just using site data
rather than signed operations like
validating with these are actually have
permission to delete an object say was a
bit of a problem without modifying yjs
so ended up moving to piece peers the
RGB and yeah so I'll let you I'll be in
touch about thanks and I'll probably
poke you for documentation on stuff too
okay and I just what to say that the a
is ipfs call is after this call which
means it's 18 hours UTC and it's on a
different channel basically so that just
feel aware of em I've posted it on the
crib pad as well if anyone is interested
anyone else with requests for help
either open issues that they want to
call to people's attention or questions
Jane
so I posted couple items in the note or
in the chat in Phoenix we've been having
some hackathons and we call them blocka
thongs and we've been using sort of a
blockchain with training wheels or I
call it a blockchain bicycle which is
called naive coin which is how to build
a blockchain or use a blockchain in
fifteen hundred lines of JavaScript or
less
and I was wondering Juan had talked
about doing a demonstration of how to
build a blockchain using IP FS and I was
wondering if anybody has done that I
know about a year two ago
I think it's Christian Lundqvist posted
an article on building a blockchain
using IP FS but I was wondering if there
was any sort of demo that we could
reference and start to build block
chains and use cases using IP FS and if
there aren't that's fine I just wondered
if anybody's aware of a resource like
that maybe Jeremy or Hector to either of
you have thoughts on where someone would
look if they're interested in building a
blockchain
on ipfs umm yeah depending on like what
exactly you mean by that I wrote
something up lately that was just kind
of a hack I did that's writing a box man
and ipfs yeah me post listen chat there
that's perfect it's roughly does nothing
it's I think it's just interesting to
look at in terms of like how to
structure things that's perfect that's
exactly what I was looking for I mean I
haven't looked at it yet but just based
on the name I'm sure that's what I'm
looking for so thank you
you
and you saw the link that picture pasted
yep house on anyone else with requests
for help
I want it before we could wrap up this
call J as people can come back in 25
minutes okay
[Laughter]
I don't see any handset all right well
then thank you everyone for joining us
and we'll see you all online bye